Said that the I think the general
architecture he was thinking of is
aligned with what we've done so far.
But he said the difference between Mutt
and Rambo was that um.
Mott has in its GB as like effectively
chapters,
but for each discipline who executes the
project.
So project managers have a chapter,
structural engineers have a chapter.
Instrumentation have a chapter and
globally they define like the best
Mm.
practice for structural design on all,
you know, mock projects.
Mhm.
So and he said the problem is Rambo
doesn't have this standardised way of
And.
doing things.
Like fully, you know,
we're trying to do it in buildings,
we're trying to do it, you know,
Henning Larsen has it relatively good,
but we we don't really have this like
standard way of doing things.
So this is like the, the, the,
the workflows, the processes that we use.
And.
And he said that was the first building
block.
And then like we discussed,
they build this like mother of all data
models which captured all these workflows
and users and you know the steps.
And then they build a.
Yeah, like a a thin client, basically,
you know,
as an interface that gave you access to
the tools and it it sounds very familiar,
but.
Mhm.
Mm.
Yeah,
so he he he's got really good input for
Yeah, that's quite.
us. Um.
Yeah, the priorities and yeah,
the the different functionalities for me
is really important.
So I look forward to hearing from from
this workshop and what emerges as you
know the main, the main component.
I think Mertz was listing some of this
capability in his.
The answer and I think it was really good.
It would be great to have people converge
towards what has the highest value and
also one key element I think for having
this that I I read from his comments and
I totally agree is having an approach
which.
Is gradual and iterative,
and to have this successfully happening,
you need to have a group of people who is
willing to test things as we go and to
adopt it from.
Early on,
so making sure we just don't have a a a
team of people building it,
but also on the other end people who are
actually ready to consume it and to use
it and feed feedback and not be.
Frustrated in the beginning, of course,
because that's the challenge.
People can be like, oh well,
we're gonna test it.
And then it's first impression is, oh,
this is this isn't doing much for me and
they lose patience and then as the
builders of the solution.
We can't afford just being in a closed
loop.
We have to have secured some people down
the line who are able to test things and
maybe even pilot it a little bit in the
projects.
And this is tricky when people are under
pressure because of deliveries.
Yeah.
They don't have time to toy with new tech
and to to do this.
So I think this is probably something
that you might have to, you know,
deal with David, I guess,
and to make sure that we are solid also
on on on that side.
Yeah, this is um.
It seems to be one of my key findings.
I I wrote in the our chat that.
On the GBAS,
they don't necessarily trust Ramble tech
to be like an an enabler to them.
So I discussed this with Peter and I said
look,
we have to make sure there's like a first
of all a co-ownership.
So UPE is owned by the GBAS.
Let's say the DDP chapter, you know,
the GBAS and Ramble tech,
and I really want to do some kind of.
Build teams which basically are a
combination of ramble tech people or DDPE
people and from the GP as and like you
said, the challenge will be they're busy,
GPS.
they're they're running projects,
but to like establish this kind of
embedded.
Concept where we embed, you know,
solution architects or a I experts or
whatever it is from Ramble Tech and they,
you know,
provide us with the business knowledge
and and we're kind of joint accountable
for each.
You know,
deliverable that that we we make.
But what's really clear is there's more,
unfortunately there's a little bit more,
not political,
but like governance and alignment to be
done, you know,
before we can kind of start going.
But I did say to Ronnie and and Peter and
and and Robin, I said, look,
I want to put in place the teams,
you know,
at least start to identify what are the
most high priority things to do.
And Ronnie actually had on one of his
slides, you know, project initialization.
This, this came up a lot.
Um, but yeah, I I would like to have.
The teams in place and then you know make
the request to have the the developers
and and the resources from DPE.
I have a budget it's something like 6,000,
000 Danish kroner,
but I'm not I don't have full visibility
is this budget.
Just for DPE resources or.
It seems like the product owners are like
included in the price because they're
Hmm, yeah.
paid for. Maybe things like UX designers,
I think we have to pay for internally and
Yeah.
of course DPE.
So you you know you guys at some point
will be like some official internal
purchase order to have you,
but I still want to proceed as much as we
M.
can to to form as much as we can before
we get into like all these.
Purchase orders and I don't know,
it starts to get slower.
Yeah, I am.
Yeah, I agree. And things get official.
Some something,
Mhm.
some magic is lost somehow.
Yeah, the the other one is um.
This A I topic,
so Peter brought it up as well.
So there's as you know A I has been kind
of looked at on a you know RAM GPT level
or origami, some point solutions,
some more general things you know like a
chatbot,
but it I don't get this visibility of
what's going on around the digital design.
Production.
I I know there's some people working on
some things,
there's some things in DPE as well,
but I don't have a good picture.
So I'm trying to build up this picture of
who's doing what, who needs what,
because we have this big contract with
Autodesk like a partnership agreement
where we've paid for consultancy.
And Ronnie's pushing me to say, you know,
don't necessarily spend this consultancy
on building, you know,
like productivity applications, you know,
try to be more strategic with this.
And see if you can get Autodesk to
deliver something more meaningful for the
And.
UPE concept.
O.
Did he?
Did he say anything more specific about
that? Do you see what he has in mind or?
Well.
No, he didn't.
But I don't know if you're aware of this
together together for better outcomes
initiative with Autodesk. So Michael,
Yeah, you know.
Yeah.
who works for me,
is the product owner for those
initiatives and it's like some of them
are UPE related like project
initialization.
Um,
some interoperability I think is in there.
Yeah.
I have the list somewhere,
but they're quite low level um
initiatives and now.
I would almost say like let's instead of
doing 6 small things,
maybe we need to do one big topic.
And so the one topic that's come up from
Mert was this idea of they call it a
insight vault.
Um,
I don't know if I shared that with you,
but he sent me this PowerPoint. Um.
I'll share it with you.
I I'll share it somehow through our our
Mhm.
our loop.
Basically the in buildings they're trying
to build this.
Vault of project information.
So the you know, the costs, the estimates,
Mhm.
the building standards,
I think everything that's not like BIM
data, like not the model and the metadata.
Mhm.
And then they want to use this to speed
up their ability to do bids.
Mm.
So he gives lots of examples of, you know,
this bid engineer is like searching for
four days, you know,
to get the pricing for concrete for this
bid and you know,
all these kind of things.
And they want to build this kind of
project information vault.
And.
Mhm.
Mm.
Um.
No.
All of the the competitors seem to be
trying to build the same thing.
According to this Autodesk workshop I was
at,
everybody says we need this project best
practices vault.
So that's one potential idea to let
Autodesk see if they want to work with us
Yeah.
on this.
Thank you.
But.
OK.
But we kind of learn from that project
and then build a open version of that
ourselves. I'm not too sure,
but we basically want to engage with
Yeah.
Autodesk on on maybe a bigger AI type of
project instead of.
Um,
improving incremental things on on like
the product level.
Yeah, no, no, I get it.
I think it makes sense.
And I'll share these things with you,
yeah.
You have to be a big, yeah. No,
I just just wanted to say that my
Mhm.
experience with Autodesk through the
latest years has been that you have to be
also really careful because they have
tendency to drag you where they want.
Want you to be. And so yeah,
making it very clear, you know,
what we are looking for, what we are,
what we want and making sure they are not
trying to push the agenda because they
have done that a lot and they got into
that habit.
So I think it's important to to
understand because in my view they
Yeah, well.
haven't always acted in our best interest.
So we need to make sure we are clear with
what we want and yeah.
Yeah,
I I I probably need your help to figure
out what we want because, um,
I don't have like a really good guidance
for them at the moment,
but it's it's coming up very quickly
because we have a workshop next week with
them to plan this partnership.
And already we I gave some push back on
the A I side of things and said no,
I think the use cases we're looking at
are like very granular like the ability
to talk to the 3D model for example and
and query the 3D model.
And.
And I I'm trying to re-engage with them
and say no,
we need something a little bit more
strategic that supports.
Mm.
It's the UPE concept,
but we're already doing the planning next
week, so it's a bit,
it's a bit time critical.
Mm.
Yeah, I forgot what I was gonna say.
Yeah.
Hmm.
But oh, see, sorry. Yeah,
I guess the most important one Ronnie
Yeah.
gave me very clear steerage.
So I think you guys,
because you've been involved in it,
we don't feel like a huge value from the
Datum POC so far and.
Mhm.
I think internally we agreed to stop this,
but the Autodesk still wants to push
ahead.
They're actually proposing now a a POC
Of.
for the energy GPA,
but that basically I'll stop this and
what I agreed with Paul.
From partnerships is that we'll only
continue with datum if we have like a
Yeah.
customer project where it makes sense or
a customer is asking for for that and
Hmm.
Mm-hmm.
Um.
then we go to the next step.
But I do have a general question for you
guys like.
Mhm.
At the moment it's only a feeling.
I'm not too sure if we need this
information backbone to come from a
vendor. I I think we need some concept,
Mm.
you know,
that takes the data out of the files.
But I'm not too sure if either Aviva net
or Datum is really fitting our needs
there.
My my sense is that no,
I think we should own this more and and
not have a vendor in charge of it.
Yeah,
I agree because I see that in our case in
specifically in Rambo,
we have very different GP as with very
different types of data business
workflows and and tools and data sources
and.
I don't see any solutions in the market
that can utilise all of these different
data sources in the same solution and
I've even not also I've even not also not.
Yeah.
Let's see.
Potentially it's not a product that we
will cover all our use cases because I
see that we have some legacy tools like
Octopus.
We have a lot of CAD tools including
Revit, Autodesk, including Aviva tools.
Mm.
Good.
We have a databases,
we have a documents and etcetera,
etcetera.
And I think that it's impossible to find
some out-of-the-box solution that will
cover all of this potential workforce and
use cases for data import.
So anyway,
we need to build something internally as
our internal backbone and build this GBA
specific frameworks or GBA specific
pipelines for utilized data for each of
the.
At least because it's really,
really specific things and I don't think
that any vendor can support us with that.
So that's my.
But I think they they they would probably
position themselves as they they have
exactly what we need.
But for me this level of data we are
Mhm.
talking about is kind of far from what
they are.
They're coming from the design space and
the coordination and what we want I think
is more generic than.
And that is assessed how to organize our
data in a generic way so that we can
harvest it better and we can point our
MCP server into. For me,
if we have to work with a partner,
it would be more like a more generic
actor like Microsoft or something that OK,
they help us with some.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely. Yeah.
So.
Maybe to put together an architecture for
some sort of data lake for our data and
they have probably done that for many,
many other companies and it's nothing
Yeah, yeah.
specific to the construction industry.
I think we are talking like such a high
level,
so it doesn't have to be an actor of this
sector.
Might be better because they won't be
biased towards nudging, nudging us into,
you know,
using their licenses and and all of that.
Yeah.
So I see a big conflict of interest by by
using consultancy from Autodesk and other
partners because you always struggle to
find line,
you know how much are they acting in our
best?
Interest in how much are they trying to
lock in lock us into the system so.
So.
I great to hear.
I I personally agree with you.
I think the challenge I've got is there's
so much momentum around this Autodesk
I know.
partnership. We have just paid.
I had to sign the contract, you know,
on my second week.
So we've like already committed this
money to Autodesk.
So I I need to find the best way to use
that consultancy.
I'm not convinced that the current way of
doing it's right. Um.
OK.
You know,
maybe I see it like it's this kind of.
I don't know,
maybe maybe it serves the bill,
the building GBA quite well because
they're pure Autodesk wall to wall or
more or less. But yeah,
so I think we'll need to put, you know,
more shape on all of these components
that we need to build.
And then I think there'll be like this
difficult discussion like how to justify
the cost of.
Building this, Peter seems very committed,
but he's he's also very, you know,
pro Autodesk and he's happy to spend the
money on Autodesk because he feels like
that gives us a competitive advantage to
be so close to Autodesk.
Mm.
And I'll need to persuade him that,
you know,
we need to do some things ourselves.
This is the big topic as you know,
like how much do you allow your vendor to
do it or and and to be honest,
Mm.
I guess you saw this news about the share
price of Autodesk and Bentley.
Um, diving because of Claude.
I haven't seen it. Sorry, what happened?
So this, so this is super relevant.
So basically the share price dived off a
Cliff because Claude announced this legal
bot. So basically nothing to do with AC,
but the, you know, the stock market,
the analysts basically said.
Mm.
Um.
Autodesk and Bentley's revenue would just
continue to decline because you know as
you know they're they're selling software
that you know relies on you having lots
of clicks and and and doing lots of
things and the more efficient you'll
Mhm, mhm, mhm.
Mm.
become at using.
You know, tools, the less tokens you need.
And this is actually reflected already in
our our our licensing apparently that
we're using slightly less because we're a
Mm.
bit more efficient.
So basically the market is betting that
companies like Rambo will build their own.
Platform and build their own MCP servers,
A I data lake because it's it's so close
to our intellectual property.
It makes sense, right?
Yeah.
You don't want to give this to a vendor
and and that's why basically they're
Mhm.
No.
they're predicting these companies will
of course they'll pump up the price.
Mm.
Like Bentley,
Bentley already asked us for 24% more
than last year, just for no reason,
just like that.
Wow, seriously.
And Autodesk have been doing the same for
years.
So this for me is like the big topic
inside DDP.
You know our our vendors are going to
screw us because their business model is
disrupted.
We should start spending, you know,
less ultimately on our vendors and more
on our own internal.
But the problem is we're committed to
Oops.
Autodesk and Bentley probably for the
next three years,
but we have to make this transition in
the next three years, which is.
Mm.
Yeah.
And yeah, I I get your point, David.
But I think that it should be more
narrowed on on very specific things that
we can measure and evaluate because I'm
afraid if we go like in this fluffy,
you know, make our AI already data vault,
Maybe.
it's going to be such a fluffy thing and.
It's going to take forever to get some
concrete things to evaluate.
Yeah.
By the time you are there,
they will be asking for more budgets to
For the next year.
continue and we haven't been able to
evaluate or to measure. Is this a success?
Is this a fail?
I've seen this before and so I think we
have to be real specific on OK,
these are the building blocks we
identified.
Would be best actually implemented by you
because this is closer to your system,
but we have to have more of reflection on
the overall architecture and have them
implement maybe these adapters and
components of this additional layer on
top of the system.
Instead of taking ownership of the
backbone, which I think we should own.
Yeah, yeah. So with that in mind,
do you have or maybe you can have a think
about what some of those specific, yeah.
Yeah,
I need to think about it a little bit.
But so I think what one thing that comes
to mind, but it's really not going to be,
it's going to be peanuts compared to the
the amount.
But it's around this automating the
provisioning of all of this and the
OK.
permission and all of this.
Things I know they have already templates
that you can use for seeding new projects.
They have this approval workflows and all
sorts of things like that that are
already embedded in the platform.
I I don't know if there could be a a
layer,
a thin layer on top of that to implement
a standardized way of.
Harnessing these templates and this
ability,
they have API also that you can use to
control to administrate a grant access to
user. They have a lot of APIs Autodesk,
so we don't really use that.
Hmm.
As much as we should, I think.
So maybe if we define this,
let's say we have part of UB that's
responsible for provisioning projects and
also managing onboarding, offboarding of.
Of people in the project.
At some point we want this when new
person is added and access needs to be
granted to something.
We want to have a unique interface
regardless of the vendor,
so do we need to actually?
Establish some some sort of.
High-level API that is our own way of
saying we want to grant access to this
Yeah.
role. I mean,
maybe it's it's just a detail, you know,
in this ocean of abilities,
but that's just one thing I can think of.
It makes sense to me.
It's probably at the end of the day,
some kind of combination, but um.
What else could could it be?
What?
Yeah,
when when you provision to Autodesk
mandate like one cloud provider,
do they is it always AWS or is it always
Azure or are they flexible for example?
Sorry,
what what they use themselves as AWSI
Yeah, OK.
think.
But uh, yeah,
that's that's what I will allow as far as
I know.
Um.
All right, let let's come back to that.
But I I I would like your input on,
you know,
what might those specific layers be or
because I don't have good visibility of
what those those are at the moment.
Mm.
No, but yeah, I'll think about it. Let's,
let's discuss this further. We have,
we have a meeting also in a couple of
days, right on on Thursday.
But it's.
Yeah.
Yeah, without a risk in. Yeah, I think so.
Uh.
So you did something around terms and
definitions. Yeah, I've got it.
So.
Yeah, yeah,
just to let's try to back to our main
agenda and I actually try to update some
of the pages in our whole environment.
Yeah.
So I I try to include the yeah,
this section just to understand.
What we are talking about because
sometimes it's really difficult to to
discuss something if you don't understand
the the basic ideas and for sure it's
it's just a proposal,
it's not a statement, but what I tried.
To say that actually a unified production
environment,
it's a kind of a global digital backbone
for us, for Amble globally,
for all Gbas and the main idea,
at least for me, that that looks logical.
To me that the main idea that it's kind
of parameterized constructor that you can
use for engineers, it's for engineers,
it's not primary, it's for engineers.
Mhm.
Yeah,
the idea that we need to reuse and
utilize the the solutions and and.
Best practices that we already had before
in previous projects,
but somehow we need to utilise and you
need we need to incorporate this this
knowledge into the common database.
And use this as a framework for future
projects.
But the idea that it should be
parameterized,
sorry for my English parameterized
solution that that's means that let's
imagine that we have a client that wants
to have a building.
Commercial building like a commercial
centre or data centre,
but before with the previous client we
had a similar project, yeah,
but with a bit different parameters and a
bit different conditions.
And now based on the requirements from
new client,
we can utilize and reuse the previously
used design,
but based on the requirements of the new
client, we can parameterize this and.
Modify this,
this and build another instance or
individual project just to this client,
but the core of this design and and all
basic.
Connections are now basic ideas and
fundamental things will will be the same
because we are using absolutely the same
principles. I mean like construction,
calculations, principles or.
Positioning of the rooms in the building
or something like that,
that that's what I'm trying to say that
it's it's kind of parametric tool or kind
of parametric database,
knowledge database that users and
engineers can use.
For build new design,
but based on the previously defined
building blocks or or parametric blocks,
it's actually very similar that what you
have in case if you want to have a car.
And all of these huge companies like BMW
or Mercedes,
they they have a website and you can
specify. I want, yeah, configure, yeah,
Configure.
you want to have this engine with this
power and this kind of internal design of
Yeah.
the of your car or outside.
Side exterior and etcetera and you can
configure this and and have your
individual instance or individual car
based on your request and then the idea
that the the the platform.
Will be absolutely the same,
but this individual things will be
parameterized based on the your request.
That's what I'm also thinking as a very
fundamental idea of this that we can try
to to utilize and reuse already developed
and already.
Prepared building blocks that can be
connected and then we can define another
Mm.
project for this individual client. Yeah,
yeah.
But there are, Andrei,
already a lot of this parametric
computational design building blocks in
in rubble we have.
I think what we're missing is maybe it's
not at the same scale as you are talking
about it.
You're talking about the project scale.
I'm thinking more, you know,
within disciplines.
They have like specialized components to
do this and that and I think already you
know having these existing things
available,
made available through a single portal
and connecting this and making it
available within the context of the
discipline.
The way it was described by Mert,
I like this gateway image where you log
in and depending on who you are and the
discipline and what you then and the
Mm-hmm. Yeah.
projects you are onto,
you have this kind of central dashboard
that is the entry points to the different
things and you can access also the
software components.
That we have already implemented.
So having this software distribution and
suggestion is maybe already you know
initial step because I don't know the way
you describe it at the scale of a project.
How much complexity?
How much you can reuse?
You don't want to make it too rigid
because then it becomes unusable.
How do you see this?
What's the scale of this parameterization
Oh.
you're talking about?
Yeah,
it depends on the type of the project for
sure.
But I can see that for instance for
offshore substations projects,
it's quite typical.
Yeah.
It's quite typical because they have a,
yes,
that the positioning of the equipment on
the site and the connections can be.
Hi.
Different but the process foundation and
process schema will will be the same and
Hmm.
and for instance you can deliver to the
client.
The project in several iterations. Yeah,
we've client wants to have substation at
this in this place with these conditions
and this power. Yeah,
and you can define like a parametric
request to to the UP that I want to build.
This prototype or MVP based on this
request and this conditions and then
system will generate this I would say
parametric design solution and then you
can for sure digitalise this.
It's kind of iteration.
You you can build the first prototype and
then you for sure you can data wise or
you can reuse individual.
I would say typical small components of
this. For instance,
you have a different types of connections
of pipelines to the to the nozzles.
Hmm.
Yeah.
And based on your previous experience,
we know exactly that this type of
connections are not so good or it's quite
expensive and we don't have enough
proposals from the market.
And engineers can ask that, OK,
I want to connect my pipeline to this
nozzle.
So and then this tool can suggest or
provide kind of options and or proposals
what you can use based on the previous
experience and that that's.
Another level of knowledge, yeah,
another level of typical solutions.
And then you can go step by step to the
from the high level to the this
individual low level and aggregate all
knowledge in the common database,
but then it will be utilized and reused
in the different levels of of the
compositions.
So, but I've worked before some two years.
I worked in the buildings company,
building structure company that they they
did, they built the buildings,
mass living buildings for.
It's 25 levels of buildings, yeah,
with very typical topology of the these
buildings and and the idea was that you
can actually define the place,
you can define amount of levels and you
can define how many.
Spaces square meters you want to get from
this building finally and then based on
this this generate generic or sorry
generative parametric engine will build
Yeah.
and generate for you this building and
then you can use it as a prototype for.
Data wise, redefine the components,
reconnect these components and etcetera.
That's idea what I keep in mind that we
can maybe try to reuse the same idea here
because I see that the the biggest
problem that.
People don't really know what is the best
solution for this kind of projects and
every time what we are spending a lot of
time for find the best practices,
the best solutions for this specific one.
But actually we did the same previously.
Why we need to spend it again this time
we can use what we we we did already this
idea.
But again it's just my my yeah what I
keeping.
I have some some some input.
So this feels very the so because the so
we're quite good at doing like parametric.
They have like a parametric engine in
their CAD tools,
so it's very easy to do this kind of
stuff and funnily enough I did
substations.
With this tool like for Hydro Quebec.
So basically we had an Excel sheet with
all the parameters external from CATIA
and you could drive like different
Mhm.
layouts and all these kind of things.
It was very advanced. This actually, um,
I don't think this is the only way UBE
works of course.
But it's it's actually a good idea
because Peter mentioned, I asked him,
Yeah, yeah.
I said what's going on like really high
level across the GP as like what's,
you know, what's what's our market like?
And he said in buildings it's like race
to the bottom.
Commoditisation.
So most of the building projects are,
you know, like block of flats, you know,
office block and you know,
we we were walking down the road here.
Everything just looks the same, like copy,
paste, copy,
paste with a different facade, right?
Different windows, different details.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Mhm.
And we were like,
why is this not like done with, you know,
generative design already?
Like it looks easy when you look at it.
So actually this idea is not completely
bad at all for the building's GBA because
they're basically they're racing to the
bottom on price.
So they they just needed to.
Deliver more projects for less money.
That's the if you like the the
Yeah.
Mm.
overarching strategy.
If it worked for energy as well,
fantastic, you know,
because ultimately I think energy's
getting into this race to the bottom,
at least in in renewables. Um.
So we should keep this idea, Um, I think.
The interesting thing is, you know, Peter,
of course from his like limited
technological view,
he just thinks this is AI,
but it's it's it's maybe not, you know,
maybe it's it's it's parametric design.
Mm.
Or machine learning. Thanks.
Exactly. It's a machine learning.
It's a bit of both. The thing is,
Or or both.
Yeah.
it's so let's keep this definitely let's
keep this idea because I think it's
Yep, that's.
something to aim for,
for at least for the building's GPA.
The other thing, just so you know,
like I'll add this on the on this page in
the loop.
But.
You know,
UPE for Peter is we maybe need to
differentiate from UPE as the business
initiative because I have loads of
stakeholders like in terms of how we work
process excellence.
All all these things which are not really
technical,
Mm-hmm.
but then there's the UPE platform.
So I think we should probably try to use
this terminology.
We talk about UPE as the business
initiative which delivers transformation.
That's not even digital transformation,
because some of it's about people and
processes.
Some of it is digital transformation,
like parametric, you know, parametric,
automatically generated buildings,
something like that is is digital and we
should start to refer to.
Mhm.
The UPE platform as the thing that as the
thing that we built at least in our
I agree.
Yeah.
circles because it gets confusing because
at the moment I'm only engaging on the
Yeah.
UPE business initiative level with the
stakeholders.
Yeah.
But I I want to build like the team to
make the platform as well so.
Right. So I think we need a name for it.
What's the UP platform?
Yeah.
Is it just UP platform or it's a?
Let's get, yeah, well, let's again,
we can have a competition.
If you come up with a good name,
very happy because I need to put this on
OK.
the product lifecycle.
There's this you probably know about this,
the product lifecycle process.
So do I need to name these things
explicitly?
Yeah, yeah, of course.
And I think it you need a name for the
the platform or let's call it the UP
platform for now.
Yeah.
And then this will be I think made of
several modules that can grow.
So I think each module within the
platform becomes its own product.
Yeah.
So I think and already already now I
think we can identify such products and
And.
and those that can be built in connection
with with together with our partners like
Autodesk you mentioned we have some
budget what kind of product.
Can we be together with them or can we
even fully delegate to them? I don't know.
Yeah.
Yeah, take your time.
I think have a proper think about that.
And I will too. Um.
Yeah.
Yeah,
and I also would would show you this.
Oh, on this note,
because I have a meeting with Microsoft
because I I realized it's like a key
partner and basically I'll introduce this
concept of UPE and I will bring you guys
into this conversation,
but once I identify the right people in
Microsoft.
Sounds good.
OK, no.
This is dead. Azure Digital Twins is dead.
We were trying to use it in the last
Hmm.
company,
but Microsoft more or less killed it.
They dropped it.
Oh, really? OK.
Yeah.
OK.
For over a year.
So that's the problem with Microsoft.
Mm.
Oh.
Well, like everybody you know, NVIDIA,
but this Azure Digital twins.
Yeah.
Uh.
It was quite interesting because it would
like build this model from raw data.
As far as I understood you kind of would
build an ontology from data you you fed
Mm.
it but.
Yeah, yeah, yeah,
that's was idea that they they are using
open modelling language for build the
ontology of your data and then you can
utilise this in the common platform.
And another idea that I really like is
that it it's a platform.
Uh.
That you can customer and you can use
independently of the markets.
It's it's a kind of universal platform
for any of the markets.
Yeah.
That's also a good idea.
But yeah,
I I I didn't have a bad experience with
OK, but yeah.
Microsoft, but it's is.
Mhm.
I had the same conclusion, you know,
like let's use Microsoft because it's
gonna be around for a while,
whereas but actually not they they drop
things and and then they they they come
up with a new concept to replace it as
OK.
Yeah.
Um, OK, OK.
I mean,
when I said that it was more about the
well quite often.
fundamentals building blocks,
I wasn't thinking of building too much on
Yeah.
top of something specific,
but at least what we are all already
using in our ecosystem.
You know,
to the team's environment and this
Yep, Yep.
product, but it's true, you know,
they can also kill them. Yeah,
But less likely because they're they're
used by millions of people.
that's likely.
It's OK.
But yeah,
your point to David about this EP,
No.
EP at the business level and how can we
bake our processes and how we work into a
platform.
I think this is a really powerful thing
and that's probably a.
Something that business is really keen on
to make these processes more as far as I
understand to tell me if if this is maybe
a wrong perception,
but I think is that to be seen as a?
As a as a priority or something really
important or?
Yeah,
I I I personally think it's it's
important.
So one of the things I've seen on several
slides is is like make the digital twin
of the business like there's a very high
level statement.
But um.
Mm.
Yeah, Mert confirmed this as well.
So basically he said, yeah,
we we started kind of with this data
model. We we mapped out, you know,
who does what and how,
which tools do they use?
Where does the data go?
Hey.
And I think you've heard of the Camino
project.
So it's like mapping the production
processes.
Yeah.
There's a small team working on a Camino
copilot, they call it.
So basically they've connected it to LLM.
And a rag implementation, I think,
where they can take a PDF and extract a
process from it and then write this
process in XML.
And at the moment it's hallucinating like
hell.
But I said, you know,
I said what's important is first to make
we we do need to capture our business
processes and our our production
processes and even like the user
processes down to like the application
level.
It's generally not a bad thing to do.
But you need to make it scalable.
So like having somebody model this and
you know,
it takes them like 10 hours to to write
down a process today is, you know,
it's not gonna work, so.
I'd seen companies before just like
recording with screen grabs,
Yeah, yeah.
like how they, you know, make a a drawing,
how they do a Revit model, design, review,
whatever,
and just record everything and then point
the AI at this video and get it to
translate the video into steps.
So, you know,
I said that's where we need to be with
Mm.
capturing knowledge.
So I think a lot of people agree that
somehow capturing knowledge is a good
thing.
And I think you can do a lot with AI,
like basically, you know,
speak to the A I make.
Video of things and you can do quite
detailed things if you can get it to be
reliable. And I said, yeah, you for me,
you need to capture,
Mm.
you know who does what, which role,
you know, is it a a project manager?
Is this a design coordinator or design
manager?
Is it a structural detail or whatever?
You need to capture the process,
of course,
the steps and which tools are used.
So this is Revit, this is Autodesk Civil,
this is Aviva instrumentation,
and you need to capture, you know,
Mm.
what data is produced and where does it
go.
So this is a pin ID.
It goes into this file directory.
Mm.
This is a, you know, a Revit model.
It goes into ACC under the project main,
you know, it's all this stuff I think.
It makes sense to do what I said to Peter.
I said I said I I think this makes sense
to do regardless of how you implement the
UPE. This is like a background work.
And.
So that's one component I I look at the
moment I have the.
Product owner for Camino.
So I'm trying to redirect her work to
start to make a more frictionless capture
of processes. And yeah,
Mm.
if there's any more details you think we
need rather than the tools,
Mhm.
the deliverables,
you know where the data goes.
Um.
Then let me know.
But we we haven't captured the processes
at that level of detail yet,
so this is still work in progress.
Mhm.
Maybe it's also another idea that I keep
in mind that we might use some kind of
recording or capturing a tool for record
the actions by individual actions by user.
For instance, I'm construction engineer.
I'm doing something.
Mm.
I'm exporting my model to IC.
I'm importing this to Revit or something
like that and I'm doing some some kind of
calculations in Excel and all of the
OK.
sections can can be recorded by this tool.
We can get some kind of XML or Jason
structure file and then reuse it for.
Get knowledge the typical way how we can
do something some yeah execute this
It's a good.
process.
It's a good idea because then we could
Yeah.
could utilize it but without this
spending a lot of hours for get this
knowledge from verbally from the people.
Yeah we just we can just get it.
Yeah,
I was thinking the same actually when you
It.
were describing David, like for instance,
you would have like a small plug in and
Hmm.
sitting in in the different design tools.
We have the all of this capability for
being extended by add-ons and that would
be sort of a little spy, you know,
Yeah.
checking what it.
No.
That's the first UPE product.
Doing and.
Yeah, yeah.
Extracting and and feeding our our our
database,
our internal database that then our MCP
server can feed off.
And of course this has to be a little bit
anonymized data,
but we can just record you know the
discipline of the person.
Maybe you know the country they're in and
a few indicators that give us context
about what they're doing.
Maybe the project their own, you know,
that could be interesting.
And if we have like this sort of top
metadata,
then we can start to have data we can
leverage. But to do this,
I think we need something even more to
bootstrap.
This is this concept of the project
context.
You need to when you start your project
you need to have some sort of launcher or
Mm.
the portal like Mert describes it maybe
where you have upfront identified who is
working in what.
The the type of the discipline and the
type of work of the person actually the
user using the the system and I think
this is the initial effort is to create
this basic database for identifying
activity.
On our network so that we can map the
data somewhere.
It sounds like it.
I think we discussed it last time as well
that that was a good starting point to
put like a very minimal data model in
place. So it knows what a project is,
what a discipline is, what a role is.
Mhm, no.
Where is the user working? Uh, maybe.
Maybe that's a good thing to start to
Mm.
define in in the loop.
What would the the basic?
Yeah,
and and we have the CRM with all of the
No.
projects already.
We have the the Azure and try ID with all
Yeah.
of the users where we have already you
know the where people sit in the which
Yeah, yeah.
department.
So I think we can derive already a lot of
data.
Without having people to to fill in
anything.
I obviously the the spy bot is is like
probably controversial,
but I will discuss this with yeah,
there's several people seem to be
interested in this knowledge capture
knowledge management idea.
2.
No.
I'm I'm working on a project is is like
you know the the robotic modes just
repeating the the process so.
Yeah.
Yeah, I love it.
Maybe that's maybe that those two
elements are maybe like the first UPE
product which is the the spy bot and
build the network of information
automatically.
Yeah.
The the the good thing is because we're
starting late, you know, like compared to.
Yeah.
Hello.
Mut um,
you know we we have some of these or
these tools should be easier to to make
um.
OK. How much time do you guys have?
I'm OK actually today, but.
I can. I can stretch it a bit more.
I don't have anything, uh, just behind.
So if you want to to extend a bit,
it's fine, yeah.
I.
Yeah, I me too.
So I think it's still very helpful.
We're having really good discussions.
I don't know if you guys want to put more
structure in it or you think it's still
healthy to to just discuss generally the
one thing.
I did agree to do this.
I spoke to the person responsible for UX
in Rumble Tech, Marina,
and I told her about this.
Mhm.
OK.
Originally I wanted to map out like the.
As is executing project compared to the
to be executing project,
you know after you have UPE this this is
what Mert sent me.
Yeah.
I I asked him if he had an opinion about
you know how.
What's the to be picture?
And that's what he sent me in response.
OK.
But actually, um, Robin,
my boss and Marina said we should do some
research in the GBAs where we take one or
two projects and we just like to talk to.
Well, not even us,
but basically the UX team do interviews
to the project users and say, you know,
talk me through doing this project and
And.
you know where the pain points and you
know what do you do step by step so we
can we can use that team.
Um, to do this kind of initial research?
And maybe I'm thinking we could even use
that research session to say, well, like,
would you be OK if a, you know,
spybot was on your shoulder or something
like this, but.
Hmm, yeah.
So we, yeah,
basically we can do this UXR as well as
part of this initiative.
Yeah.
For me, I'll be honest with you,
this UX thing,
if if it's today assessing the as is,
it makes sense,
but the to be given that we are not even
sure you know what what capability we are,
we want to prioritize and what things.
I'm afraid that if you start putting UX,
it's going to go in all directions and it
It's it should be to be.
might be a waste of resources so.
Yeah.
It should be the to be story and it it
should be very limited.
Yeah.
It shouldn't be too big. No,
like not a giant project,
not not hundreds of users,
just just very small.
Mm-hmm.
OK.
Um.
Maybe I I just want to share with you
since you're on.
Um, this workshop? Uh,
let me bring up the agenda.
The one you you mentioned in in on 24th
of Feb or something, yeah.
Yeah.
So the I'll just share that with you so
you can see, so you have some visibility.
So basically Robin encouraged me to do
this and the the heads of DDP are very
keen to meet each other because they
don't get to travel much apparently or
not during this restricted travel.
Yeah.
Mhm.
So.
Yeah,
basically those guys are the main
stakeholders, the heads of DDP, Marquetta,
David,
Mhm.
I think everybody can come apart from
David Cassano because he's in the US.
Hmm.
So these guys will be on site.
Um, the head.
The directors have been invited,
but they're like optional.
And then basically the key goals are to
align on these key requirements again.
Mhm.
I mean,
I don't have them documented in one place,
unfortunately. I have bits and pieces,
but it's not really clear. The yeah,
the main outcome, if you like,
is to agree on this governance model.
So Peter Hayman already agreed to be the
president of the steering committee.
Mhm.
And then I think what the heads of G,
what the heads of DDP have been telling
me is that we have agreed this layer
model.
Have you seen this diagram where the UPE
should be some of it should be like,
Yeah.
Mhm.
you know, globally delivered?
And some of it should be GBA specific.
OK.
And they want to agree on like how do we
govern, you know,
what's global and what's GPA specific.
So we have to put basically the the
structure around that.
I've seen this and let me say I thought
it was a bit. I mean,
I like the idea obviously.
I think it's great idea to be able to
modularize and to to adapt, you know,
depending on the needs.
But I think it was strange that we had,
we are discussing this before even we are.
We have identified the the,
the capabilities that we want because
once you have said, OK,
this is what we want to implement,
then you can say OK, this part,
maybe it has to be there.
Yeah.
This doesn't make sense.
So maybe it's outside of the bundle,
you know, for certain GBA or for.
So to me,
it sounds a bit strange that I think we
are one step too far ahead.
We haven't covered enough to.
Hey babe.
And sorry if I'm brutally honest, David.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Brutally honest is is very good at this
stage. It's it saves time.
So, uh, I would,
I would think maybe it's good that, uh,
you know, uh, this uh.
Focus on on the.
Identifying you know those those
different capabilities before we can say
in which in which GBA they should fall.
Yeah,
I suspect this decision about layers was
done to keep like everybody happy.
Yeah, OK, yeah.
But then then it's it's good, it's good.
But it I don't know how how effective it
is to to.
To move things forward in a way,
I think this should be said that yeah,
it's a granted that it's not gonna be A1
size for fit all and that it's going to
Yeah.
be constraining,
but then how useful that is.
At this point I was sort of questioning
it a little bit.
I think it's a bit of a distraction I
would say,
but I think it's an important point,
I agree,
but I wouldn't have too much focus on
that.
Yeah, that's that's good. Uh, good input.
OK.
But basically my my goal was like
establish this operating model,
get the get you know one more shot of of
requirements,
give them a chance to do their homework
and say this is what we need.
OK.
I mean at the moment I have very high
level things like Eric is saying we need
to be more data-driven and put in place
the BIM standards in a.
Consistent way,
but for me that's like a GBA issue.
Mhm.
They need to do that within their GPA,
but some other things like we can't do
Hmm.
global work share because people are
using different tools. OK,
that's then something which is a kind of
global topic.
But they're not really about capability,
they're just about these these business
Oh.
initiatives which are needed as a
precursor to UPE. Actually,
like if we don't have standardized
workflows and standardized ways of
Mm.
governing projects.
Then you can, you know you can.
I think that's like pre work.
It's a prerequisite, so anyway.
There has been some work done in in in in
the GBA. I think.
I think if you press Eric, he will,
he will give you something. Yeah, yeah,
Yeah.
He's giving me a lot.
but.
I I thought I could agree with him a
little bit on that because OK,
it's not just BIM.
I mean every project needs to have like a
properly documented and you know,
naming convention and all of this or at
least one way of defining some
specification.
I don't think any any discipline is.
Yeah.
Would benefit from having a chaotic
nonstandardized way of delivering.
So for me this would apply across GBA,
wouldn't it?
Yeah,
I think that's it sits with the GB AS.
Yeah, Peter Hayman said that himself.
He said, you know, David, you, you, you,
you kind of need to wait for the GB AS to
do some of their harmonisation work and
consolidation work before you can.
Mm.
Probably roll out, you know,
the concept of UPE. Um.
But if you have,
let's say if you as a platform,
if you provide a mechanism for a
different GBA to define their standard,
that's that's I think in that sense I
think as a platform you could.
Have a underlying underlying mechanism
that technically will be used by everyone,
Enable it, yeah.
Hmm.
but then you let Gbas or even project you
know,
configure it and tweak it if they need to.
But the mechanism is is baked in and you
can harness it.
You just need to configure it and maybe
you get a template when you initialize
your project.
So it comes predefined according to you
know what's been agreed to be the the
standard for a project this size or this
and that.
So you have predefined templates.
And we can seed the the, the, the,
the setup for the project in certain ways,
but you can always go in and tweak and
change things if you want to use
different ways and maybe sometimes we
have to because the client is enforcing.
No ways. So it should be possible,
but that's for me, yeah.
Yeah,
I think this is what Eric has in mind is,
is that we enforce it or provide the
tools to enforce it.
Mm.
Anyway, this is this is like the agenda.
I I said you can, um, add to this agenda,
provide feedback.
They've not done much yet. Um.
And then the second one is around digital
design and production.
Which is more.
About AI and innovation,
because it seems like those innovation
topics are kind of external at the moment
and done in the GBA and they're not
getting the support from Bramble Tech.
Mhm.
I can send this to you and we'll record
it as well. Yeah, that's fine.
OK.
I took a screenshot now,
so I have I have a copy, but yeah,
thanks for sharing.
I really appreciate it.
Yeah.
Um.
No.
I don't think there's anything else.
I think I'll. Oh,
one more thing I've got going on is um.
We we don't have very good processes for,
well, we've got,
I think the normal ADO processes for
managing A backlog and doing the,
you know, the Sprint execution.
But something I feel I mentioned this
Mm.
before is we don't have a very good.
Tool for doing this kind of platform
building which is is going to have
multiple products effectively under the
platform.
So I'm testing this tool aha which is
what I used in Aviva which is like a a
road mapping.
And yeah, it's mostly a road mapping tool,
but it allows you to, you know,
like to put in very complex products or a
portfolio of products and track, you know,
how these different products or features
or initiatives need to work together.
So I haven't done it yet,
but my idea is to put in an example of
Mhm.
UPE and then we'll kind of use this and
and demonstrate it to the business and
OK.
say.
We we need this kind of tool to help us
manage this very complex type of product.
I I I think this I've discovered there's
a portfolio governance group as well in
rumble tech and they need this tool.
There's the product lifecycle to people
And.
as well.
They need this tool and then the product
owners as well so that.
That's part of the work I'm doing to try
and like improve the process in in
product management as well,
but I'll try to use UP as an example.
So I'll I'll do like a first draft,
but I'll probably need you guys input to
say maybe you know where we think this
split of capabilities is or products.
Further down the line,
but I'll refer basically to what we've
got in the the loop already.
Yeah,
but you you mentioned a specific product
Mhm.
that you you want to use for this, David.
Yeah, I'll show you. It's it's called aha.
Um.
It's actually the name of the EDW on
shell.
They are using also the same abbreviation.
Who is using it?
It's Shell.
Shell developed cells EDW internally
Oh yeah.
based on, I don't know,
it's Microsoft database,
SQL database and it's name of absolutely
the same. Aha as you mentioned, yeah.
No.
Hmm.
Same abbreviation.
I just typed in my Aviva e-mail address
by mistake.
I'll have to get the power here.
That's it.
The Hobbit.
Am I sharing my screen?
Uh, not yet, no.
No.
Hang on.
I don't worry.
What I'll do is I'll make a small video
and I'll send it to anybody who's like
interested in this.
Mhm.
I'm struggling with the password just now.
I think I need a coffee.
Yeah, sounds good. But uh, don't worry.
Uh, you can. Yeah, you can send it later.
I was just curious. It's not urgent.
Yeah,
it's a very nice tool like basically
allows you to connect all your strategic
initiatives to like products and features
in your ADO environment and then you can
kind of measure like are we making
Mhm.
progress towards the strategic goal.
And yeah, basically in Aviva,
they were using it because, you know,
Mhm.
they're trying to develop this integrated
engineering and design,
but actually underneath that concept is
individual products, right,
that have a product owner.
So in order to make the whole thing move
along together,
Mhm.
they really struggled to do that in like,
you know, Jira, DevOps,
whatever kind of agile development
management platform and it has has been
Mm.
like developed specifically to.
Solve this problem is.
Like this if you want to Google it like
it.
Right. Yeah, I will look it up.
Yep.
I'm normally quite skeptical towards the
the new shiny tool,
but it sounds like they have.
They have cracked something important
here.
Yeah, it's not. It's not so new anymore.
I mean,
Aviva was using it I guess seven years
ago. It's quite the stuff. To be honest,
Oh, well.
it they got this problem where they tried
to put too much features in it and then
now it looks quite clunky. You know,
it was quite streamlined and simple
before and now it's like too many buttons,
too many.
Too much going on,
but it's pretty powerful and I think
Mm.
Ramboll needs.
Normally I would say just like copy the
concepts and do it like manually in
notion or something like this.
OK.
You don't need to buy the software to do
this.
Mhm.
But I think Rambo could benefit from
having this for a few years, but.
Yeah.
You can have a look at it and I'll I'll
set up this demo environment.
So.
Yeah,
and interesting because looks like a
Sounds good.
mirror.
It has basically it has Miro inside it,
but if you do like your product features,
you know as a whiteboard,
it converts them into like database
Mhm.
objects as features and then you can link
you know the feature to a business
Mm.
objective or an initiative.
And yeah,
it's like data centric way of working
basically.
Sounds like also good for PDP.
We can connect the the the PDP goals of
Have you?
Oh yeah.
from from the top down.
Yeah.
I hate this system.
That's what I I I know.
I started using this PDP system and it's
it's like, uh, very clunky.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah. OK, nice.
All right.
All right. Yeah.
Sorry we didn't get too much further on
our agenda,
but maybe we can get back to like more
frequent meetings and we can go through
our our plan.
I think it was meaningful conversation
and yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah,
anyway I recorded transcription of the
session and my idea that I will use AI
for translate this and organise this in
more shorter version and then I will
include this into into the loop as a.
Yeah.
That's great.
Yeah,
it's some minutes of meetings or
something like that. Yeah, that's.
I think that that's important. Yeah. OK.
Perfect. Thank you very much.
All right, guys, have a good one.
I'm going to get out this tiny box here.
Yes, thank you.
Yeah, enjoy.
It's hot.
See you guys. Have a good one. Bye, bye.